# APITestGenie
Replication package for API Test Genie, an LLM based approach to generate integration tests based on API specification and Business Requirements.

This project uses LangChain and LLMs to autonomously generate TypeScript tests (Jest) for your code.

## Project strucuture

In the replication package we present a structured way to test two web services, (i) PetShop [PetShop](`https://petstore.swagger.io/`) and (ii) [CatFact](https://catfact.ninja/)

The `./user_stories` folder contain two example Business Requirements used by the package to generate an executable test script.
The API spefication are retrieved directly from the available documentaiton on the web. 
The `./src/main.py` file contains more information reagarding the used web services:

```py
PETSHOP = {
    "api": "https://petstore.swagger.io/v2/swagger.json",
    "user_story": "./user_stories/pet_shop.txt"
}

CATFACT = {
    "api": "https://catfact.ninja/docs?api-docs.json",
    "user_story": "./user_stories/cat_fact.txt"
}
```

## Configuration

The replication package uses node `v10.5.0` and python `v3.12.4`. 

It can be executed both in Windows and MacOs following the respective instructions:

### Windows

#### Setup Environment

1. Create a virtual environment:
   ```
   py -m venv venv
   ```

2. Activate the virtual environment:
   ```
   venv\Scripts\activate
   ```

3. Install dependencies:
   ```
   py -m pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. Specify the OPENAI_API_KEY key:
    - Open the `.env` file.
    - Add a valid `open_api_key` as an environment variable

#### Generate Test

1. Run the main script where the `\<web_service>` can either be `catFact` or `petShop`:
   ```
   py src/main.py <web_service>
   ```

#### Exectute Test

1. Instal dependencies:
   ```
   npm install --save
   ```

2. Execute generated test:
   ```
   npm test
   ```

### MacOs

#### Setup Environment

TBD

#### Generate Test

TBD

#### Exectute Test

TBD


## Generation Output

All the information provided to the LLM will be available in the `test_ouput` file where:
- `prompt.txt` is the prompt provided to the LLM in order to generate the integration test.
- `generation.txt` is all the content generated by the LLM.
- `test.ts` is the parsed generated test to be executed in the Jest environment.

